.TH WORK-PLANNER 1 2022-12-25

.SH NAME
work\-planner \- diary planner for work items

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B work\-planner
[\fI command \fR]
[\fI parameters ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B work\-planner
is a program designed to help you keep track of all the work items you must do
each day. Each work item can be 'designated' to be completed on specific days.
You are then able to view a summary screen which will detail items that are
designated to be completed today, alongside upcoming deadlines.

Work\-planner's design is oriented around the idea that you accumulate a list of
work items as you come up with them. You can then use these items as building
blocks for what you will do in your day, building up a list of items before
slowly ticking them off.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-complete " " \fIitem\-id
Mark a specified work item as completed.
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-add
Add a new work item.
.TP
.BR \-\-designate-today
Used when creating a new work item to immediately designate it to the current day.
.BR \-t ", " \--text
Specify the text of the work item being added.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-date
The date to be used for due dates, or designation.
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-interactive
work\-planner will prompt for fields on the command line rather than accepting
them as arguments in the command itself
.TP
.BR \-\-all
Show all work items that work\-planner knows about.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-purge
Purge all work items that have been completed, and don't have an upcoming due
date.
.TP
.BR \-y ", " \-\-no-confirm
Do not ask for confirmation when purging work items
.TP
.BR \-\-designated " " \fIitem\-id
Designated a specifed work\-item to be completed today, or alternatively, on the
date specified by the date field.
